age.png

This graphs shows the distribution of trips based on the median age of the census tract where the pickup occured.
What we can see is that the vast majority of trips occur in the 30-40 year range. We can think of some reasons why this might be 
the case. Once people turn 40, they might move out of dense metropolitan areas where taxi rides are common and move
to the suburbs, where they are likely to use their own vehicles for transport.

dailytrips.png

This graphs the daily trip totals from 2013 to 2017. There are a few spikes and drops that are interesting here.
If we look at where all the spikes occur, they all happen to fall in the first two week of March of each year. That spike
occurs because of St. Patrick's day Parade, which is the busiest day for taxi cabs.
The drops all occur on Christmas day, which is the slowest day for taxis

fare_distribution.png

This graphs shows the distribution of fares. The vast vast majority of fares are below $10. We see a bump at the end over the 
$30-40 range, and this is the bump from trips to and from O'Hare which are one of the most expensive ones.

fare_over_time.png

This plots the average fare per month. One of the things to notice here is the cyclicality of the average fare.
The lowest average fare occurs in the winter months, and the highest average fare occurs in the summer months. We
also notice the bump and dip from March to May. Not only is St Patrick's day the busiest in terms of number of trips, but
it also carries the highest average fare.

A second thing is we can clearly see that the average fare is increasing over time. If we want to speculate as to why, it might
be because competition from ridesharing companies is much more intense at the lower range trips compared to the higher end.


income_distribution1.png

This is trip distribution based on household income of the census tract. The maximum usage occurs in the 80-90k range, and drops off
after that. The number of trips below the 80k range is negligible. This tells us that the sweet spot for taxi usage is the
upper middle classe income range, where people can afford the convinience of taxi cabs.

income_distribution2.png

The is trip distribution based on per capita income of the census tract. The highest is the 60k range, dropping off from that.
If we wanted to look off for the cuttoff, which is at what income level do taxi cabs become feasible, this graphs tells us that
for people who make more than 60k, taxis are affordable, but below that they are too expensive.

payment.png

This shows the payment type usage over time. Now one of the most surprising thing was the high cash usage in 2013.
We were not expecting it. However, overtime that usage has dropped. But a second interesting thing is the plateauing we see 
from 2016 onwards. Now we can think of reasons why the cash usage drops, and credit card usage rises, but we don't really have an 
explanation for why they plateu from 2016. 


usage.png

This breaks down payment type based on the fare. As we can see for fares below $10, the vast majority of transaction as made in cash
But as we start increasing the fare, credit card usage rises.

trips.png

This is the monthly trips over time. The most interesting thing here is that from 2013-mid-2015 the number of trips were flat.
Uber launches in 2011 in Chicago. Lyft lauched in 2013. We can conclude that it took 

heatmap.png
